New York City (NYC) aims to install 100MW of solar photovoltaic (PV) capacity. The NYC Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) collects [data on government buildings' readiness to host solar PV systems](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/City-of-New-York-Municipal-Solar-Readiness-Assessm/cfz5-6fvh/about_data) every two years in accordance with local laws. The data contains sites listed either as having a completed solar PV installation, having an installation in progess, being solar ready, or not solar ready. For a building to be deemed solar ready, it must be 10,000 or more gross building square feet, have a roof that is ten years old or newer, and be in good structural condition. In this project, I analyze the solar readiness data to answer questions and create visuals regarding how NYC can best acheive their goal of 100 MW.

After downloading the CSV file from the NYC DCAS website, I cleaned the data in Excel by filtering for 2022 data, creating a unique site identifier variable (site_address), identifying and deleting duplicates of this variable, trimming spaces, converting number data stored as string data to number data types, checking for typos, and identifying and making a plan to handle missing data.

I encountered several errors and challenges with the data. First, there were many duplicates, identified as having the same site name and same address. If I had contact with the data collectors, I would have asked them how to interpret this, but for the purposes of this analysis, I assumed that there could only be one roof per site with the same address. I deleted duplicates. Secondly, data was not collected for each variable for all statuses (completed, in progress, solar ready, not solar ready). This appears to have been done systematically and on purpose, so it is not a threat to the reliabilty, but this prevented me from being able to do several analyses that would have been beneficial or predictive (eg, sorting sites by $/MW). Third, the data appeared corrupted, which became apparent during upload to BigQuery. This is described below in more detail. Lastly, several sites that had all variables indicating solar readiness were listed as not solar ready. I address this below as well.

After the data was in good shape to use, examined it in Excel. I added a column converting KW to MW (KW/1000), to facilitate easier comparison to the goal solar PV capacity, which is listed in MW. I created pivot tables and several scatter plots to get a sense of the data and the correlation between several variables (see nyc_municipal_solar_readiness_assessment_2022.xlsx). 

In these pivot tables, I calculated the MWs of complete, in progress, and solar ready sites. I found that 12.0 MW of solar PV are completed, 41.1 are in progress, and 20.0 MW could be installed at solar ready sites. After all in progress sites are completed, NYC will still need to install 46.9 MW to acheive their goal. After solar PV is installed at all solar ready sites, there will be a remaining 26.9 MW to install at sites that will need to be made solar ready. These numbers are slightly different than NYC's reported MW for each status, which I suspect may have to do with differences in handling duplicates. 

In the Excel file mentioned above, I also calculate and show the results that will come from all completed and in progress solar PV installations, including the total installed MW capacity, total project cost, the total annual energy savings, annual CO2 emissions reduction, and more. I calculate the average cost to install 1MW of solar capacity at $3,329,242.91.

Then, I uploaded my data into SQL (BigQuery). I recieved a "bad character" error when uploading, and discovered that the data had various null characters that appeared in SQL (despite my file being UTF-8 encoded). I used the Excel VBA editor to clean the corrupted data (see clean_corrupt_excel_data.xlsm), and successfully uploaded the file (solar_readiness_clean_sql.xlsx) to SQL. A few errors persisted in the data type casting, but after examining the data, there was nothing else major wrong with it. I cleaned the data by correctly casting data types for analysis (see clean_data_types_after_sql_upload.sql).

Then, I began analysis in SQL. I pulled summary statistics for several variables and calculated the correlation coefficients for serveral sets of variables. As expected, MW capacity was highly correlated with CO2 emissions reduction and with energy cost savings (see correlation_coefficients.xlsx). Implications of several other relationships are discussed below.

I wanted to know how to best approach the non-solar ready sites to fill the 26.9 MW gap that would still exist after installing solar PV at all solar ready sites. I made a column showing the reason each site was not solar ready, which I planned to later use in a visual as well as for analysis (see add_column_reason_not_solar_ready.sql and fill_column_reason_not_solar_ready.sql). While writing code to classify sites based on the reason they were not solar ready, I discovered that several sites had values in their solar readiness variables indicating that they actually were solar ready or under construction. I included code in my query to identify these sites. (See identify_sites_misidentified_not_solar_ready.sql and calculate_additional_mw_from_misidentified_sites.sql). I found that the MW capacity of these sites misidentified as not solar ready could be roughly estimated at 7.6 MW, bringing the gap to 19.3 MW (see misidentified_as_not_solar_ready_info.xlsx).

I discovered that the vast majority of non-solar ready sites had roofs that were both too old and not in good condition. Based on this column, I pulled a list of all sites that would be eligible for a roof replacement (due to not being too small for an installation regardless). Then, these sites would be solar ready. I sorted this list by square footage, with the largest square footage sites as highest priority, assuming some economies of scale in roof replacement (see create_table_eligible_for_roof_replacement.sql and eligible_for_roof_replacement.xlsx).

I used the average MW capacity per site multiplied by the count of roof replacement eligible sites to get a very rough estimate of the total MW capacity potential of the roof replacement eligible sites (MW capacity data was not collected for non-solar ready sites). I found that there would be potential to install roughly 216.179 MW of solar PV if all sites eligible for a roof replacement got one.

Then, I wanted to find out if there was any benefit to prioritizing certain solar ready sites for solar PV installation. Due to cost data not being collected for solar ready sites, I could not identify the highest MW capacity sites with the lowest relative cost. Cost was correlated with MW capacity, but not GSF, so I could not use GSF to estimate/proxy the cost of each solar installation. However, since cost is correlated with MW capacity, a higher cost would mean greater value, so there would not be a downside to starting with larger (higher MW capacity) projects. I pulled a list of solar ready sites, sorted highest to lowest by MW capacity, to prioritize sites (see create_table_solar_ready_highest_capacity.sql and solar_ready_highest_capacity.xlsx). However, it makes sense to install solar PV on all solar ready roofs.  

Lastly, I used used the linear equations that define the relationship between MW capcity and CO2 emissions reduction and between MW capacity and energy cost savings to make projections for future results. I found that after installing 100MW of solar PV, NYC would save approximately $16,566,856.46 annually on energy costs, and they would reduce CO2 emissions by 31,797.9 metric tons (see emissions_reductions_energy_savings_projections.xlsx).

Visit my [Tableau dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/views/NYCSolarReadiness/Dashboard2?:language=en-US&:sid=&:redirect=auth&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link) for a visual view of the data.

Based on my analysis, the following steps are likely most efficient for NYC to reach its goal of installing 100 MW solar PV:
<ul>
<li>Install solar PV at all solar ready sites. If it is necessary to quickly make a goal, it makes sense to install solar at sites with higher estimated MW sites first, and not necessarily sites with higher GSF. A list of solar ready sites sorted by estimated MW is provided: solar_ready_highest_capacity.xlsx.</li>
<li>Add the sites I have identified as "under construction" and "actually solar ready" to the list of solar ready sites.</li>
<li>The main reason that sites are not solar ready is that the roof is both too old and not in good condition. Replace these roofs first (as they would be most likely to need replacement anyway) starting with highest square footage (assumption of some economies of scale in roof replacement). List of roof replacement eligible sites sorted by GSF provided: eligible_for_roof_replacement.xlsx.</li>
<li>The main benefits that will come from reaching the goal of 100MW solar PV installed on NYC government buildings include: New York City would save approximately $16,566,856.46 annually on energy costs, and they would reduce CO2 emissions by 31,797.9 metric tons (see emissions_reductions_energy_savings_projections.xlsx).</li>
</ul>







